<Question>

Which pairs of classes are likely to be the `<<Abstraction>>` and the` <<Occurrence>>` of the abstraction occurrence pattern?

- [ ] CarModel, Car. (Here CarModel represents a particular model of a car produced by the car manufacturer. E.g. BMW R4300)
- [ ] Car, Wheel
- [ ] Club, Member
- [ ] TeamLeader, TeamMember
- [ ] Magazine (E.g. ReadersDigest, PCWorld), MagazineIssue

<div slot="answer">

One of the key things to keep in mind is that the `<<Abstraction>>` does not represent a real entity. Rather, it represents some information common to a set of objects. A single real entity is represented by an object of `<<Abstraction>>` type and `<<Occurrence>>` type.
Before applying the pattern, some attributes have the same values for multiple objects. For example, w.r.t. the BookTitle-BookCopy example given in this handout, values of attributes such as book_title, ISBN are exactly the same for copies of the same book.
After applying the pattern, the Abstraction and the Occurrence classes together represent one entity. It is like one class has been split into two. For example, a BookTitle object and a BookCopy object combines to represent an actual Book.

- [X] CarModel, Car.
- [ ] Car, Wheel (==Wheel is a ‘part of’ Car. A wheel is not an occurrence of Car.==)
- [ ] Club, Member (==this is a ‘part of’ relationship.==)
- [ ] TeamLeader, TeamMember (==A TeamMember is not an occurrence of a TeamLeader or vice versa.==)
- [X] Magazine (E.g. ReadersDigest, PCWorld), MagazineIssue



</div>
</Question>
