{% from "common/macros.njk" import trail, bold_number, button_green, button_light, callout, dropdown, hp_number, label, show_commit, show_folder_columns, show_git_term, show_git_term_tip, show_detour, show_exercise, show_git_tabs, show_git_tabs_from_text, show_hands_on_practical, show_head, show_lesson_intro, show_lesson_link, show_output, show_protip, show_ref, show_resources, show_sidebar, show_tag, show_transformation_columns, show_troubleshooting, show_under_the_hood, sub_numbers with context %}

<span id="title">Reviewing PRs</span>
<span id="prereqs"></span>
<span id="outcomes">{{ icon_outcome }} Can review PRs on GitHub</span>

<div id="body">

**PR reviews are a collaborative process in which project members examine and provide feedback on PRs submitted to a remote repo.** After an initial review, the reviewer may suggest improvements or identify issues, prompting the submitter to refine and update their code in the PR. This review-refine-update cycle can repeat several times, with reviewers reassessing each new iteration until all feedback is addressed and the code meets the team’s expectations. Once approved, the PR can be merged, making the changes an official part of the codebase.

<!-- ================== start: HANDS-ON =========================== -->
{% call show_hands_on_practical("Review a PR")  %}

{{ hp_number("Preparation") }} If you do not have access to a PR that you can review, you can create one for yourself as follows:

* Create a branch in a repo that you have forked and cloned (e.g., [samplerepo-pr-practice](https://github.com/se-edu/samplerepo-pr-practice)). {{ numbers_roman }}
* Do some changes in the branch.
* Push the branch to the remote repo.
* Create a PR within your fork, from the new branch to the `master` branch.



{{ hp_number("1") }} **Locate the PR:**
* Go to the GitHub page of the repo. {{ sub_numbers('1') }}
* Click on the <span class="tab">{{ icon_pr }} Pull requests</span> tab.
* Click on the PR you want to review.

{{ hp_number("2") }}**Read the PR description.** It might contain information relevant to reviewing the PR.

{{ hp_number("3") }}**Click on the** <span class="tab">:octicon-diff: Files changed</span> tab to see the _diff_ view.

<div class="indented-level1" id="tip-pr-split-view">

{{ icon_tip }} You can use the following setting to try the two different views available and pick the one you like.<br>
<pic src="images/splitVsUnifiedDiffView.png"/>
</div>


{{ hp_number("4") }}**Add review comments:**

* Hover over the line you want to comment on and click on the <span style="color:#0066ff">:fas-plus-square:</span> icon that appears on the left margin. That should create a text box for you to enter your comment. {{ sub_numbers('4') }}
   * {{ icon_tip }} To give a comment related to multiple lines, click-and-drag the <span style="color:#0066ff">:fas-plus-square:</span> icon. The result will look like this:<br>
     <pic eager src="images/addCommentForMultipleLines.png"/>
* Enter your comment.<br>
   * {{ icon_resource }} [This page @SE-EDU/guides](https://se-education.org/guides/guidelines/PRs-reviewing.html) has some best practices PR reviewers can follow.
   * {{ icon_tip }} To suggest an in-line code change, click on this icon:<br>
     <pic eager src="images/giveInlineSuggestion.png"/><br>
     After that, you can proceed to edit the `suggestion` code block generated by GitHub (as seen in the screenshot above).<br>
     The comment will look like this to the viewers:<br>
     <pic eager src="images/giveInlineSuggestionPreview.png"/><br>
* After typing in the comment, click on the {{ button_green("Start a review") }} button (not the {{ button_light("Add single comment") }} button. This way, your comment is saved but not visible to others yet. It will be visible to others only when you have finished the entire review.<br>
   <pic eager src="images/addComment.png" width="800" />
   <p/>
* Repeat the above steps to add more comments.

{{ hp_number("5") }}**Submit the review:**<br>
   <pic eager src="images/submitReview.png" width="500" />
   <p/>

* When there are no more comments to add, click on the {{ button_green("Review changes :octicon-triangle-down:") }} button (on the top right of the diff page). {{ sub_numbers('5') }}
* Type in an overall comment about the PR, if any. e.g.,
   ```{.no-line-numbers}
   Overall, I found your code easy to read for the most part except a few places
   where the nesting was too deep. I noted a few minor coding standard violations
   too. Some of the classes are getting quite long. Consider splitting into
   smaller classes if that makes sense.
   ```
   {{ icon_tip }} `LGTM` is often used in such overall comments, to indicate `Looks good to me` (or `Looks good to merge`).<br>
   `nit` (as in _nit-picking_) is another such term, used to indicate minor flaws e.g., `LGTM. Just a few nits to fix.`.
* Choose `Approve`, `Comment`, or `Request changes` option as appropriate and click on the {{ button_green("Submit review") }} button.

{% endcall %}<!-- ===== end: HANDS-ON ============================ -->
</div>

<div id="extras">

{% call show_resources()  %}
* [GitHub help on how to review PRs](https://help.github.com/en/articles/about-pull-request-reviews)
* [_Best practices for reviewing PRs_ @SE-EDU/guides](https://se-education.org/guides/guidelines/PRs-reviewing.html).
{% endcall %}
</div>
